A compilation requires two memory-intensive processes: obload and cdbd.
In both cases, you can configure whether you are going for speed (at the
cost of more memory) or for less memory usage (at the cost of a longer
compilation time).

Ulm's Oberon Library uses a copying garbage collection (see SysStorage)
whose runtime is linearly dependent on the amount of living objects.
This means that the garbage collection does not take longer if you
postpone it for some time. You need just more memory.

There is one tunable parameter in the Storage module which allows to
tune when a new garbage collection is triggered in dependence of the
memory used. It is called the GC intensity and can be set or retrieved
using Storage.Intensity. By default, the intensity is 0 which is only
useful for very small applications. Applications like obload or cdbd
would take forever with an intensity of 0 because they would be more
busy with an endless number of garbage collections than anything else.

By default, cdbd uses an intensity of 9 and obload uses an intensity of 8.
This has been optimized for maximum speed on a Linux box with sufficient
memory. Unfortunately this does not work well for configurations with
less than 1 GB of memory as the system would quickly be mainly busy
with swapping which at first slows down the process and may even turn
the system unresponsive.  If you decrease the intensity by 1 you double
the number of garbage collections and the application uses roughly half
the amount of memory.

Both, cdbd and obload provide an intensity option. See their respective
manual pages for details. However, both utilities are usually not called
directly but through start_cdbd or obbuild. These wrappers check the
etc/intensity directory of the installation (this directory can be
configured as InstallIntensityDir and IntensityDir when you invoke make)
for files cdbd and obload which shall consist just of an integer value.
By default, both files are created and filled in dependence of
/proc/meminfo by the obgcdflts utility. You are free to change its
contents.

Please note however that intensity values larger than 9 may lead to
address space allocation problems which cause SysStorage to panic.
